README.md, before:

# Case Study
## PitchBook



### Overview and Origin


Pitchbook is a SaaS that provide financial and market data to various investment companies looking to find more data on specific companies and deals they are research. They also provide daily industry news and analytics.

 Pitchbook started in 2007 when, the founder, John Gabbert wanted to pursue an idea from is former employer nixed which was a database that only provided insight on private equity companies. Previously, John had ben building products for the private capital markets industry for nine years. He wanted to “build a product that would meet the needs of professionals” operating in this industry. His main goal was to build more comprehensive data for PE, VC and M&A companies. 

Since the company was founded they have gone through 2 rounds of funding. In 2009, they had a Series A funding round that closed with $4.25 million worth of funding. The latest funding was raised in 2016 from a Series B round which brought in $13.8 million. Morningstar purchased a 20% equity stake and valued the company at $160 million at the time. Later in 2016, MorningStar purchased the remaining ownership for $180 million putting PitchBooks valuation at $225 million. 


### Business Activities:

Pitchbooks main solution is to provide the lack of information available for the private markets. Publicly traded companies have an abundance of information available for companies and individuals to access such as daily stock prices, 10K’s, and other public financial disclosures that do not exist for private companies. Pitchbooks “mission is to provide high-quality information and hard-to-find details on the private capital markests, including valuations, cap table information and deal terms, in addition to the most detailed information on private company financings that no one else has” as stated by the founder himself. (6)

Who is the company’s intended customer? Pitchbook main client base is Private equity firms, Venture Capitalists and Investment Banks dealing with Mergers and Acquisitions. These companies are provided with detailed information on Small and Medium size private business as well as large enterprises. 

Pitchbook utilizes its competitive advantage with a database of more than 1.3 million companies. Using this “the firm can quickly discover businesses within its target regions and industry verticals, as well as see funding history, current investors and similar companies.” (1.4)

Known for its natural language processing and machine learning capabilities, Pitchbook is a the forefront of the FinTech industry. Currently, “PitchBook is releasing fulltime analyst coverage on five sectors including mobility, fintech, foodtech, AI/ML and enterprise blockchain solutions. In the coming weeks, new coverage areas will be released, covering supply chain and logistics technology, consumer IoT, cloud technology, cybersecurity and healthtech – other coverage areas will be added as the private markets continue to expand. PitchBook’s Emerging Technology Research is intended to replace and supplement the challenging research workflows clients face today. The new research product employs a consistent, investor-focused framework to evaluate sectors, providing sector and sub-segment market size estimates, detailed industry outlooks, opportunity and risk assessments, value chain analysis and more. PitchBook clients can access emerging technology research in the Platform’s Research Center.” (1)


### Landscape:

What domain of the finance industry is the company in? Pitchbook is a business intelligence software providing Finance and Market data solutions for small and medium size businesses as well as large enterprises within the private equity, venture capital and M&A. They are the premier data provider for the private and public equity markets. 

Major Trends within this doman: 

“An ecosystem has emerged around low-cost retail tools as inexpensive and tax-efficient ETFs have enabled a new generation of roboadvisors expanding financial advice beyond the mass affluent and middle class.
The availability of alternative data has allowed hedge fund managers to reinvent themselves as “quantamental”, incorporating new machine learning tools into fundamental human analysis as the industry faces scrutiny over high fees and underperformance.
A second wave of personal savings and investment tools have begun to further democratize access to financial services to previously underserved segments.” (1.5)

Major Competitors:

CB Insights
Preqin
Sisense
S&P Capital IQ
Thomson Reuters

In 2019 Pitchbook was named the Best Financial & Market Data Solution award for the eighth consecutive year by SIIA CODiE. It was selected because of its insights on evolving capital markets and innovation on finding financial data for private companies that is not readily available.


### Results

In 2019, Pitchbook was named the Best Financial & Market Data Solution award for the eighth consecutive year by SIIA CODiE. It was selected because of its insights on evolving capital markets and innovation on finding financial data for private companies that is not readily available.

* What are some of the core metrics that companies in this domain use to measure success? How is your company performing, based on these metrics?

* How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same domain?


### Recommendations

* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? (This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!) 

* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?

* What technologies would this additional product or service utilize? 

* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?

###Resources

Commit message:

Added information on the Results section of Case Study and removed information from Landscape section tht was duplicated.

README.md, after:

# Case Study
## PitchBook



### Overview and Origin


Pitchbook is a SaaS that provide financial and market data to various investment companies looking to find more data on specific companies and deals they are research. They also provide daily industry news and analytics.

 Pitchbook started in 2007 when, the founder, John Gabbert wanted to pursue an idea from is former employer nixed which was a database that only provided insight on private equity companies. Previously, John had ben building products for the private capital markets industry for nine years. He wanted to “build a product that would meet the needs of professionals” operating in this industry. His main goal was to build more comprehensive data for PE, VC and M&A companies. 

Since the company was founded they have gone through 2 rounds of funding. In 2009, they had a Series A funding round that closed with $4.25 million worth of funding. The latest funding was raised in 2016 from a Series B round which brought in $13.8 million. Morningstar purchased a 20% equity stake and valued the company at $160 million at the time. Later in 2016, MorningStar purchased the remaining ownership for $180 million putting PitchBooks valuation at $225 million. 


### Business Activities:

Pitchbooks main solution is to provide the lack of information available for the private markets. Publicly traded companies have an abundance of information available for companies and individuals to access such as daily stock prices, 10K’s, and other public financial disclosures that do not exist for private companies. Pitchbooks “mission is to provide high-quality information and hard-to-find details on the private capital markests, including valuations, cap table information and deal terms, in addition to the most detailed information on private company financings that no one else has” as stated by the founder himself. (6)

Who is the company’s intended customer? Pitchbook main client base is Private equity firms, Venture Capitalists and Investment Banks dealing with Mergers and Acquisitions. These companies are provided with detailed information on Small and Medium size private business as well as large enterprises. 

Pitchbook utilizes its competitive advantage with a database of more than 1.3 million companies. Using this “the firm can quickly discover businesses within its target regions and industry verticals, as well as see funding history, current investors and similar companies.” (1.4)

Known for its natural language processing and machine learning capabilities, Pitchbook is a the forefront of the FinTech industry. Currently, “PitchBook is releasing fulltime analyst coverage on five sectors including mobility, fintech, foodtech, AI/ML and enterprise blockchain solutions. In the coming weeks, new coverage areas will be released, covering supply chain and logistics technology, consumer IoT, cloud technology, cybersecurity and healthtech – other coverage areas will be added as the private markets continue to expand. PitchBook’s Emerging Technology Research is intended to replace and supplement the challenging research workflows clients face today. The new research product employs a consistent, investor-focused framework to evaluate sectors, providing sector and sub-segment market size estimates, detailed industry outlooks, opportunity and risk assessments, value chain analysis and more. PitchBook clients can access emerging technology research in the Platform’s Research Center.” (1)


### Landscape:

What domain of the finance industry is the company in? Pitchbook is a business intelligence software providing Finance and Market data solutions for small and medium size businesses as well as large enterprises within the private equity, venture capital and M&A. They are the premier data provider for the private and public equity markets. 

Major Trends within this doman: 

“An ecosystem has emerged around low-cost retail tools as inexpensive and tax-efficient ETFs have enabled a new generation of roboadvisors expanding financial advice beyond the mass affluent and middle class.
The availability of alternative data has allowed hedge fund managers to reinvent themselves as “quantamental”, incorporating new machine learning tools into fundamental human analysis as the industry faces scrutiny over high fees and underperformance.
A second wave of personal savings and investment tools have begun to further democratize access to financial services to previously underserved segments.” (1.5)

Major Competitors:

CB Insights
Preqin
Sisense
S&P Capital IQ
Thomson Reuters

### Results

In 2019, Pitchbook was named the Best Financial & Market Data Solution award for the eighth consecutive year by SIIA CODiE. It was selected because of its insights on evolving capital markets and innovation on finding financial data for private companies that is not readily available.

* Pulling data from Finances Online who compares certain financial companies below is a list of metrics that the companies performance was based upon:

Main Functionality
Collaboration Features
Customization
Integration
Ease of use
General Impression
Help & Support
Security
Mobility
(7)

Pitchbook has a score of 8.8 on the SmartScore scoring system from Finances Online with a customer satisfaction rate of 97%. They scored slightly lower than their counterparts CB Insights and Sisense who have an 8.8 and a 9.7 SmartScore and a 100% and 99% customer satisfaction respectively. 


### Recommendations

* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? (This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!) 

* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?

* What technologies would this additional product or service utilize? 

* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?

###Resources
